I use a calculator for everything. 

When I took my last math exam in high school in Jamaica, I vowed to forget everything I studied. I had hated the experience. It's sad because in elementary school I aced math. I had a little anxiety about it (I preferred words then and now) but I could do it and pass my tests with A's. Then in 7th and 8th grade I had a great math teacher who made it not so bad so I actually enjoyed it, but as a girl who read books in my lap in class, I saw it as little more than a requirement to be fulfilled. A box to tick. Then 9th to 11th grade were complete hell. My classmates were the types that didn't want to learn and the teachers weren't that great either, so combine chaotic classroom with unenthusiastic teachers and stir. Math made me angry. 

In community college in Florida, I decided to reset my opinion of math and try again. I had had an excellent algebra teacher who made it fun to learn, and so I branched out and took statistics as my final math course to fulfill the requirement. I actually wanted to know this stuff for the first time in my life! Except once again, I was cursed with an awful teacher. This professor was the kind who truly didn't care. I remember once in class someone asked him a question about the topic we were on and this man walked over to the computer, googled the question and read the answer from some random site. This was the last straw in a series of things he did that made my blood boil. I walked out of class early that day and never went to class again and passed the final with a B. This man ruined it for me.

You might be wondering why I sit here and blame external factors on my math anxiety. The truth is, as a girl, you aren't encouraged to be analytical and technical and to love science and math. My dad tried, but it truly takes a village on this one, and in a culture where math success is seen as a talent and not the product of hard work, we are doomed from the start. As a child, enjoyment of math is such a fragile thing that can be broken before your very eyes with one wrong move. Even if that statistics class had gone well, I still never intended to take any more math classes and therein lies the problem: I was already lost.

Even in choosing to switch to web development, I swore up and down that I could avoid having to learn too much math, and I have so far. But if I want to be better (which I do) and want to advance (which I do), I have to face this fear. 

To kick off this DIY computer science program of mine, I bought a book called [The Algorithm Design Manual](https://www.amazon.com/Algorithm-Design-Manual-Steven-Skiena/dp/1848000693). The day it arrived in the mail, I eagerly grabbed a pencil, sat at my desk and began to read. There were some example equations thrown in here and there. Variables subscripted and characters I'd never seen before but I shook them off and pressed on. But the more I read, the more I realized I was missing a lot by not understanding these equations, and so I caved. I clearly needed some sort of math class before I could tackle this basic thing. Back to Google I went.

MIT OCW recommends single variable calculus as a pre-requisite to their algorithm course. Except I've never taken calculus. So I found an ebook (originally published in 1914) called [Calculus Made Easy](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/33283/33283-pdf.pdf) and started to read. Once again, the equations were too complex. Four chapters in, I stopped. Now I've gathered some open courseware math courses and some even more elementary math books.

We are starting from the very bottom kids.